# Medical Devices
A tool to review medical devices
Upon registration and login, suppliers or manufacturers can submit an expression of interest (EOI) for a device published in the list by providing the required information and submitting the form online.

The Medical Devices Regulation (MDR) 2017/745 and the In-vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Regulation (IVDR) 2017/746 are regulatory frameworks issued by the European Union (EU) to ensure the safety and performance of medical devices.

- A medical device (MD) is any instrument, apparatus, machine, software, material, or other article intended for use _on a patient_ for the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease or injury. Medical devices can range from simple tools like tongue depressors and thermometers to complex devices such as pacemakers, MRI machines, and prosthetic limbs.
- The MDR replaces the previous Medical Devices Directive (MDD) 93/42/EEC. It aims to enhance the safety and reliability of medical devices and ensure a high level of protection for public health. The MDR 2017/745 introduces stricter requirements for clinical evidence, post-market surveillance, and classification of devices. It also includes new obligations for economic operators, such as manufacturers, authorized representatives, and importers.

- In vitro diagnostic medical devices (IVD) are (rapid) tests, analyzers, culturer systems etcetera that are used _ outside the patient's body _ usually in a (hospital) laboratory on biological samples such as tissues, blood or urine to determine the status of a person's health. IVDs also include self tests such as glucose meters, covid-19 tests, HIV tests, pregnancy tests etcetera, that can be used at home.
- The IVDR replaces the previous In-vitro Diagnostic Devices Directive (IVDD) EU 98/79/EC. It focuses on regulating in-vitro diagnostic medical devices, which are used to perform tests on samples derived from the human body to provide information for medical purposes. IVDR(2017/746) brings significant changes to the regulatory requirements for in-vitro diagnostic devices. It includes stricter control of the performance evaluation process, increased scrutiny of high-risk devices, and a centralized EU database for information on devices.

Each EOI will automatically be added to the Index. In the index each supplier, by logging in will have access to its own EOI and as long as status is 'Initiated' can make edits or delete the EOI. The Agency QA department will review each EOI submitted to determine if it complies with the applicable regulation(s) and provide feedback to the supplier.
